All right.
So in the last video we took a look at progression.
We took a look at the terminology and we predicted some real valued outputs.
So now what we want to do is we want to go ahead and do a little bit of classification.
So what we want to do is we want to predict class.
So what that means is if you remember the example that we did earlier on Father psychic learn we wanted
to predict whether this image this guy over here whether it's a 0 a 1 or 2 or 5 up to 9.
Right.
So which one of these is it.
So obviously we know that it's a five.
But does the machine know.
So this is an example of classifications what we want to do is want to predict a discrete value saying
that this number is one point five would make no sense.
Right.
So we can only have zeros and then a jump.
1 2 2 9 right.
So discrete values.
So this is called classification.
Now you can have different types of things.
We'll start with the basic.
And we're going to say that we're going to predict whether a class an input data point belongs to a
class.
But it does not belong to a class for instance you show the machine an image.
And it says whether it is a cat yes or no.
Right.
So yes or no answers.
So this is called a single class single class classification
classification or simply classification.
You can also have this scenario that here in which we ask which class does it belong to.
And this is called a multi class classification.
So many class classification or simply classification.
Right.
And you can have different types of things.
Let's start with this guy over here.
So we need to make two changes to our process of regression.
So remember last time we didn't regression and we predicted real values.
And so for instance the price of the House it could have been twenty nine point six nine.
That would have made sense but classification.
This is not going to make sense.
So we need to make two changes to our processes.
Let's draw our current situation over here.
So we have this process over here and I'm going to draw a line over here because we had this guy as
a linear equation right.
So we're going to draw this as a straight line order.
So this is simply a symbol for here.
And what we gave it as an input was an X..
Right.
So some input and it predicted some y for us but we also had some model parameters over here.
So we had a seat over here.
So given an X and a t to predict in y for us now what we want to do is first of all we don't want this
as a linear equation here.
Because if what we get out of this if this continued equation and we give X for instance let's give
it a fifty thousand as input and Tito was let's say Tito one was two we're going to get a very huge
value out of it like a hundred thousand.
Right so if we don't in standard please make sure you go back and put it in the equation so that you
know what I'm talking about here.
So what we have on here is a very large value.
What we want to do is we want to predict whether something is or is not in a class.
And for that what we want to do is we want to make sure that we fall in a specific range which is 0
to 1.
So this comes from probability but you don't really have to understand it at the moment.
We want our output to be constrained between 0 and 1.
So if we have the output somewhere over here and it's less than zero point five we're going to say no.
And if it falls somewhere or here or here or here we're going to say yes.
And so all of these motions over here I want to be yeses and all of these are going to be no's.
Right.
So for that we need to take this number and we want to squish it between 0 and 1.
So there are a lot of squishing functions.
So these are called squishing functions.
And let's take an example of fun or here so this is a sigmoid function so this is the Orient zero comma
zero.
And this over here is plus infinity and this altogether is minus infinity so this x axis is the input
value and we give let's say this input value and this function we give it a minus infinity it's going
to return a zero.
Right.
So if you give it plus infinity it's going to return a one in the middle.
It's going to show this behavior.
So it's going to have a
slightly gradually increasing line and this function is called sigmoid.
So let's make sure we understand this.
Let's say we got as an output over here minus one hundred thousand so that's going to be they were here
right.
So we're going to get a very small number over here.
So this is I know let's call it zero point zero zero one.
Right.
If we give it on the other hand a zero let's say this Y predict what's predicted as being zero.
So this going to go over here and this specific venue for sigmoid is zero point five.
So we get zero point five out of it.
Let's say if he gave it a very large number let's say over here to 10000 that we had earlier this is
going to give us a number of very close to 1.
Right so now we are squished between 0 and 1.
We cannot have a value larger than larger than one because the sigmoid does not have a value larger
than a month.
So we have taken this linear equation.
So what would what we have known here here is the same guy.
So we're going to predict our linearity.
Right so this median function is going to create something and then we're going to squishing.
So that's how we droit it so you might have might have seen these symbols in machine learning literature
or in deep learning codes.
So this is what we draw.
We're here because we have taken this why output and we have squashed it.
Now once we squish it we're going to predict a zero.
If this value after being squished is greater than zero point is less than three think that less than
if it is less than zero point five.
We're going to conduct a zero and it's greater than zero point five rather than or equal to zero point
five.
We're going to call it a 1.
So now what we have is this process no longer outputs a real value right outputs either 0 or 1.
Why.
Because we have a 4.5 on here and as you 2.5 over here and we have squishing over here which produces
a value between 0 and 1.
So now we have this squished functional.
And this is what we call classification.
So the process remains the same.
We give it some X. We give it some three does whatever the value is produced.
We're going to change this to do with it fall within the range of zero point one zero and one and then
we're going to see if the value is greater than zero point five we're going to say yes.
So this guy over here if it's less than zero point five we're going to say no.
So is this a cat.
If you come over here we can't say yes it's a cat.
If you come over here we say no it's not a cat.
So that's essentially what classification classification is doing in terms of progression.
Obviously our error is going to change but we don't have to worry about that right now.
So now that you have this one building block over here let's go ahead and combine a couple of these.
So we have this guy over here and we have an X going in and we have a Theta going in.
So let's leave this guy out here and come on here and create another theta.
Another squishing function.
So this same X is going to come over here.
Right we're going to input the same X to here but we're going to have a different data for this guy.
Right.
So because this data and this data are different next on this one.
And that's called this too because these two are different.
This is going to produce different behaviors.
So these outputs are going to be different.
Now when we have these different outputs what we can do is we can take these and plug them in to another
switching function.
And what this is going to do is it's going to take the output of these guys and create that that is
the input and it's going to produce its own capital here.
What this does is it takes this X and decides some sort of behavior of X and this guy decides some other
sort of relationship between X and the output.
And based on these two different outputs this guy is going to give them weights.
Think of it this way this guy over here is our senior detective.
Right.
So now the senior detective is really good at solving crimes.
But how does he work.
He takes some information from the medical examiner.
Who is capable of dissecting the body.
Finding out what chemicals are in the body and all that biology stuff right.
I'm not sure what that is but a medical examiner essentially performs the autopsy and finds out the
cause of death and all that stuff.
This guy over here is our detective.
So the junior guy who goes out goes out and collects the evidence is from the scene talks to the witnesses
on that stuff.
So this guy is not aware of the information that is over here and this guy does not know what the detective
is doing.
But they both provide some input to the senior detective and this senior detective has some of its own
parameters over here.
Right.
So it has some of its own parameters over here.
And based on those two parameters and the inputs that it is getting from the two different sources it's
able to make a good decision.
So let's call it a good decision right.
So think of it this way a two level machine that we have all here is somehow divided into low level
information
and these two are not going to communicate with each other right.
Whereas this guy receives information from all of them and can make high level decisions.
So this guy can make high level decisions
because it's able to offload some of the work to these low level workers.
So essentially what we have essentially what we have over here is a deep network you'll see where the
concept of deep neural network comes from.
So this over here is a deep network because we have what it's not technically deep.
At the moment between make it deep in a minute.
So we have this guy over here and then we have this go here.
So it's a it's a deep hierarchy right.
So yeah this guy and it's talking to these two people and this guy in turn is talking to these two guys
and this is talking to these two and so on and so forth.
Right.
So it becomes a very deep hierarchy.
And if you turn this around this is going to turn into this go here.
This leads to deep neural networks and deep learning so this is what we have all here.
You mean all the details.
So this guy over here is our ex.
So it's going to have different values.
We only have one feature earlier on but now we can have one two three four five six seven eight different
values going in.
And this is our medical examiner.
This guy Woodhead is a detective.
This guy over here is probably some other agency that can provide us more information.
And this is one level deep.
And then we have further down the line.
And finally we have some people that here this one guy over here.
This is the senior detective that said that yes this is a cat and I'm fairly sure because I got the
value out as you point eight.
Now this guy over here is another senior executive.
And as you know Detective.
And based on all the different values that you got from overhead it decides that it's a dog.
Now he says that this is with a confidence zero point seven.
This guy says that it's a car.
Right.
So car but he's not really sure.
So somebody put him and this guy over here says that it's let's say a bear zero point six.
So now we have these four guys over here and everybody says like this guy does not say that it's a car
right.
It's less than 2.5.
So this is out of the race but we do have these three guys over here and this is saying as you pointed
this things in point seven of the things you point six.
What we do is we take the max and we say because this guy is the most confident this is most probably
a cat.
Right.
So that is what we have all here in terms of making the final decisions.
And this is called a soft Max.
So Max I already explained it's called a soft because we do a little bit of computation over here but
that's not really important.
What's important is that the output the maximum protect we get out of it.
So after squishing we don't apply the threshold what we do is we simply operate the value instead of
saying yes or no we say your point eight and whatever the largest value is we pick that as the class.
So now this we have multi class classification
multi class classification instead of just one class.
Now we can predict many classes and we have the suffix for these two new concepts have been produced
on this.
We're here now because we have this guy and this guy over here and also over here.
This is our output and this is our input.
We have what are called hidden layers just as we had head there over here.
So this was our head layer and if you have more than one hidden layers these are called Deep newer networks.
So there you have it.
Deep Neural Networks in half an hour.
Now I have skipped obviously a lot of theoretical details but this if you understand all of this completely
this should be sufficient to get you started with quite a lot of code.